." Process this file with
." groff -man -Tascii
."
.TH "wg_namespace_cli" "1" "Sep 2021" "" ""

.Sh NAME
.B wg_namespace_cli
\(en tool to manage isolated network namespace with traffic routed through WireGuard interface.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B MY_IP="<IP>" wg_namespace_cli
[
.I up|down
]
.I config_file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wg_namespace_cli
is a tool to bring up or down network namespaces traffic in which is routed
through WireGuard interface. The interface itself is configured through
.BR ip-link (8)
and the IP address is assigned using
.BR ip-address (8).
The
.BR wg (8)
utility is used to apply the WireGuard config taken from
.I config_file
to the interface.

The script's behavior can be influenced by a set of environment variables.
See the
.I ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
section below for a list of variables.

The script also comes with a
.BR systemd (1)
unit that can be configured using the same set of environment variables
using
.I Environment=
directives in a systemd drop-in.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBup\fP \fIconfig_file\fP
Brings the namespace up. Creates the namespace, creates a network
link inside the new namespace. Then assigns WireGuard config to the created
link and assigns the IP address to the link. Configures all routing in the
namespace to go through the WireGuard interface. The interface takes the
wireguard configuration file \fIconfig_file\fP.

.TP
\fBdown\fP
Brings the namespace specified as \fINAMESPACE_NAME\fP environment variable down.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.I MY_IP
The IP address to be assigned to the interface. Required.
.TP
.I BASE_CONF_DIR
directory where the
.B wg (8)
Configuration file is located. If the script is launched from the systemd
service provided with the package, it defaults to
\fI$CREDENTIALS_DIRECTORY\fP populated using \fILoadCredential=\fP
systemd directive. Otherwise, default value is /etc/wireguard.
.TP
.I NAMESPACE_NAME
The name of network namespace to be created/deleted. Default: "wg0"
.TP
.I LINK_NAME
The name of the link to be configured inside the namespace. Default: "wg0"
.TP
.I WG_CONF_FILE
The path to configuration file that contains the WireGuard configuration.
Default: "/etc/wireguard/wg0"


.SH SETUP

Setup the WireGuard configuration. See \fBwg (8)\fP section
\fICONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT\fP.

If using systemd service \(en create a service drop-in and specify the IP
for the interface.

    # systemd edit wg-netnamespace@wg0
.br
    [Service]
.br
    Environment=MY_IP=<IP_ADDRESS>

Otherwise, run the \fBMY_IP=<IP_ADDRESS> wg_namespace_cli up wg0\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wg (8),
.BR ip (8),
.BR ip-link (8),
.BR ip-address (8),
.BR ip-default (8),

.SH AUTHOR
.B wg_namespace_cli
was written by
.MT vladimir@vtimofeenko.com
Vladimir Timofeenko
.ME .

For project information, please see
.UR https://github.com/VTimofeenko/wireguard-namespace-service
GitHub page
.UE .
